OTel Timestamps Date Formats docs added (#4758)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/time-reference.md

:::

We support several options for timestamps. When collecting log data, the timestamp attached to messages is vital, both for the integrity of the data in your account, and for accurate query results.

Because of the importance of timestamps, Sumo Logic indexes the timestamp of each message, making sure that data relevant to a query’s time range is returned properly in search results, which allows you to reconstruct a correct event timeline.

## Timestamps

The timestamp is the part of a log message that marks the time that an event occurred. During ingestion, we can detect the message timestamp, convert it to Unix epoch time (the number of milliseconds since midnight, January 1, 1970 UTC), and index it. The timestamp is parsed either using the default timestamp parsing settings, or a custom format that you specify.

### OTel automated timestamp parsing

> 

Reviewer: Per @echlebek , it would be useful to include another column that describes the name of the format, e.g., ISO8601

---
id: time-reference
title: OTel Timestamps Date Formats
description: Learn how Sumo Logic manages OTel timestamps and the configuration options that are available.
keywords:
  - time-stamp
  - otel-collector
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

> import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Reviewer: Not sure if you need this since there are no tabs

> import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
> import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> We support several options for timestamps. When collecting log data, the timestamp attached to messages is vital, both for the integrity of the data in your account, and for accurate query results.

Reviewer: I'd clarify that the doc is about how they need to format timestamps in their OTel Collector configurations

> Because of the importance of timestamps, Sumo Logic indexes the timestamp of each message, making sure that data relevant to a query’s time range is returned properly in search results, which allows you to reconstruct a correct event timeline.

Reviewer: I'd also add a note like this

```
:::note
For foundational details on how Sumo Logic recognizes and processes timestamps, time zones, time ranges, and dates, refer to the [Time Reference documentation](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/send-data/reference-information/time-reference).
:::
```

| `%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%S.%f%z` | 2023-11-22'T'10:10:15.455 |
| `%Y-%m-%d'T'%H:%M:%S` | 2023-02-11'T'18:31:44 |
| `%Y-%m-%d*%H:%M:%S:%f` | 2023-10-30*02:47:33:899 |
| `%Y-%m-%d*%H:%M:%S` | 2023-07-04*13:23:55 |
| `%y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S,%f %z` | 23-02-11 16:47:35,985 +0000 |
| `%y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S,%f` | 23-06-26 02:31:29,573 |
| `%y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S` | 23-04-19 12:00:17 |
| `%m/%d/%y %l:%M:%S` | 06/01/23 4:11:05 |
| `%m%d%y %H:%M:%S` | 220423 11:42:35 |
| `%Y%m%d %H:%M:%S.%f` | 20230423 11:42:35.173 |
| `%m/%d/%y*%H:%M:%S` | 08/10/23*13:33:56 |
| `%m/%d/%Y*%H:%M:%S` | 11/23/2023*05:13:11 |
| `%m/%d/%y %H:%M:%S %z` | 04/23/23 04:34:22 +0000 |
| `%m/%d/%Y %H:%M:%S %z` | 10/03/2023 07:29:46 -0700 |
| `%H:%M:%S` | 11:42:35 |
| `%H:%M:%S,%f` | 11:42:35,173 |
| `%d/%b/%Y:%H:%M:%S` | 23/Apr/2023:11:42:35 |
| `%d/%b%Y %H:%M:%S` | 23/Apr/2023 11:42:35 |
| `%d-%b-%Y %H:%M:%S` | 23-Apr-2023 11:42:35 |
| `%d-%b-%Y %H:%M:%S` | 23-Apr-2023 11:42:36 |
| `%d %b %Y %H:%M:%S` | 23 Apr 2023 11:42:35 |
| `%d %b %Y %H:%M:%S*%f` | 23 Apr 2023 10:32:35*311 |
| `%m%d_%H:%M:%S` | 0423_11:42:35 |
| `%m%d_%H:%M:%S.%f` | 0423_11:42:35.883 |
| `%q/%g/%Y %l:%M:%S %p:%f` | 8/5/2023 3:31:18 AM:234 |

> | `%q/%d/%Y %I:%M:%S %p` | 9/28/2023 2:23:15 PM |

Reviewer: I'd add an example configuration at the end of the doc that shows how a timestamp is used (a SME could help provide an ex.)

---
id: time-reference
title: OTel Timestamp and Date Format Reference
description: Learn about timestamp formats recognized by the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector and available configuration options.
keywords:

>   - time-stamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - timestamp
```

  - otel-collector
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

:::info

> This page specifically covers the timestamp formats recognized by the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. While Sumo Logic’s [general time reference documentation](/docs/send-data/reference-information/time-reference/) explains how timestamps are parsed and indexed across all data sources, this guide focuses on the formats automatically detected and parsed by the OTel collector for log data.

Reviewer: This page lists the timestamp formats recognized by the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. For general information on how Sumo Logic parses and indexes timestamps across all data sources, see the [general time reference documentation](/docs/send-data/reference-information/time-reference).

> This page specifically covers the timestamp formats recognized by the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. While Sumo Logic’s [general time reference documentation](/docs/send-data/reference-information/time-reference/) explains how timestamps are parsed and indexed across all data sources, this guide focuses on the formats automatically detected and parsed by the OTel collector for log data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page lists the timestamp formats recognized by the Sumo Logic OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector. For general information on how Sumo Logic parses and indexes timestamps across all data sources, see the [general time reference documentation](https://github.com/docs/send-data/reference-information/time-reference).
```
